[ADD] Employees: Configurations (#13128)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/employees.rst

:show-content:

=========
Employees
=========

Odoo **Employees** organizes a company's employee records, contracts, and departments. It is
important to configure the settings for this app, to ensure the **Employees** app dashboard

> accurately displays if the employee is absent or working, and from what location.

Reviewer: This is a great intro that's clear and concise and clearly states the business impact of the Employee app :blush: 

My feedback is totally optional. I feel like we can expand the impact to more apps in the HR scope, by briefly mentioning them here. Something like:

Odoo **Employees** centralizes personnel files, employment contracts, and departmental hierarchies in one system. Properly configuring its settings ensures the dashboard shows each employee’s real-time attendance and work location—data that drives payroll accuracy, capacity planning, and compliance reporting. (with links to relevant docs; if Odoo doesn't support these, please ignore this comment! was just trying to brainstorm :smile: )

attendance and work location—data that drives payroll accuracy, capacity planning, and compliance
reporting.

> 

Reviewer 2: Thoughts on adding cards to this page (something like this ⬇️)?

Otherwise a seealso listing the other docs in the Employees scope is recommended! :)

![Screenshot 2025-05-01 at 3 06 42 PM](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/205cd1bf-1652-4887-8237-85e7d4fe7862)

```suggestion
.. cards::

   .. card:: New employees
      :target: employees/new_employee

      Set up new employee records

   .. card:: Departments
      :target: employees/departments

      Create and manage the departments employees are a part of.

   .. card:: Certifications
      :target: employees/certifications

      Certify employees as subject matter experts with certifications.

   .. card:: Equipment
      :target: employees/equipment

      Manage and track employee equipment.

   .. card:: Offboarding
      :target: employees/offboarding

      Take care of employee records when collaboration ends.

   .. card:: Employee retention report
      :target: employees/retention_report

      Gain insight to the retention rate for a company.
```

Reviewer: Was lurking in my gmail notifications and WOW this looks super cool, @samueljlieber ! :heart_eyes: I'll leave it up to Lara to decide, but that's a very clean way to present the info on the main doc page for the app

Author: I agree- this is AMAZING @samueljlieber! I would have never thought of adding these. What a difference that makes =)

Settings
========

To view and configure the available settings, navigate to :menuselection:`Employees app -->
Configuration --> Settings`.

Employees
---------

- :guilabel:`Presence Display`: select how the employee's presence is determined. Enable the
  :guilabel:`Based on attendances` option if the user should be marked as present at work, based on
  their entries in the **Attendances** app. Enable the :guilabel:`Based on user status in system`
  option if the user is marked as present when they :doc:`check into the database

>   <attendances/check_in_check_out>`.

Reviewer: I wonder if im nitpicking here, but the term "Presence display" and then using the same word to define it might feel a little wordy. How about replacing some with "availability"? Does the definition still make sense? Is it still accurate? 

Also, who is the user? Are they definitely an employee? If so, let's stick with "employee".

Just a rewrite to consider! Totally optional (:

> :guilabel:`Presence Display`: choose how an employee’s availability status is calculated:
>  - :guilabel:`Based on attendances`: marked available when clock-in records exist in the **Attendances** app.
>  - :guilabel:`Based on user status in system`: marked available when the :doc:`employee logs in to Odoo <attendances/check_in_check_out>`.

> - :guilabel:`Advanced Presence Control`: enable this option to enable further presence controls.

Reviewer: interesting feature. im sure micromanagers like this :joy:

Author: Yeah, I am trying to be positive about this and think of good use-cases, but I cna't except for super micro-managing =D

> - :guilabel:`Advanced Presence Control`: enable this option to enable further presence controls.
>   Once this option is enabled, two additional check boxes appear: :guilabel:`Based on number of
>   emails sent`, and :guilabel:`Based on IP Address`. Once a selection has been made, further
>   :guilabel:`Presence Condition` sections appear (one for each option).
> 
>   - :guilabel:`Based on number of emails sent`: if this option is enabled, the employee's presence
>     is based on how many emails are sent every hour. If the employee sends the required emails, they
>     appear as present, if they do not, they appear absent. Enter the minimum number of emails that
>     must be sent in the :guilabel:`Sent Emails` field.
>   - :guilabel:`Based on IP Address`: if this option is enabled, the employee's presence is based on
>     their IP address. If the employee is logged into the database from specific IP addresses, they
>     appear present, if they are using a different IP address, they appear absent. Enter the IP
>     addresses in the :guilabel:`IP Addresses` field, separating each address with a comma.

Reviewer: I appreciate how clearly you describe the UI behavior here :blush: since it's a little technical, I found it a little hard to follow at first about what the feature is *actually* doing. We can reword it a little to start the first paragraph by explaining what the setting does, *then* describe in detail how it's set up!

How about something like:

```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Advanced Presence Control`: when enabled, presence status can be calculated from operational signals rather than check-ins or logins:

  - :guilabel:`Based on number of emails sent`: an employee is marked present if they send at least X emails per hour; otherwise, they’re marked absent. Enter the minimum number of emails that
    must be sent in the :guilabel:`Sent Emails` field.
  - :guilabel:`Based on IP Address`: an employee is marked present only when connected from one of the specified corporate IP addresses. Enter the IP
    addresses in the :guilabel:`IP Addresses` field, separating each address with a comma.
```

> - :guilabel:`Skills Management`: enable this option to display the :ref:`resumé tab <employees/resume>`

Reviewer: line too long here (:
